So welcome to How to
Use Blueprint Variables. The first thing I want to point out is that I have now
upgraded to 4.12.5, so it won't effect this
video I don't think, but you might want to upgrade to that fairly shortly or higher.
So what are we going to do in this video? We are going to aim to change the color of this
aim point, or at least we're going to get setup so that the aim point can be either red,
amber, or green. I know it's blue there but that's what we're going to do. And to
do that we're going to use a blueprint variable that we're going to define here, a reference,
and we're going to look at the whole architecture and how we find what state we should
be in, based on the TankAimingComponent. So let's see how that all hangs together now!
So we're back to that age old question, what's least fun about this game
right now? So I'm just going to turn my controller on and have a look!  Well I think that the thing that
I don't like the most is, I don't know when I can fire. I'm mashing the fire button,
hoping that I'm going to be able to fire. I want some sort of affordance or indication
that it is possible to fire right now, and that actually brings us
nicely, in our iterative loop, back to User Interface. We've been working on player
2. That's kind of working, there's more to do. But let's go and get some
stuff done on the User Interface. What I want to do is to change the crosshair
in the middle of the screen here, I want to change its color. If we are
locked, i.e. the barrel is not moving, I want it to be green. If we're locked and
we're reloaded I want it to be green. If the barrel
is currently moving like so, then we're aiming, I want it to be
amber. We can fire but it's not necessarily going to go where we want, and if we
haven't reloaded yet I want it to be red. So it would start off red, as soon as the
tank's ready to go it would go green, and as soon as we move the barrel it will go amber, until
we line up again and then it would go green. Alright, so that I think would give a very simple
traffic light system. How are we going to do it though? How is our crosshair going to get its
color? Well let's recap the architecture. We have a Player UI Widget.
Remember that puppy? There he is, the Player UI Widget, and it's got this little
dot in the middle of it here, and that's the thing we want to change the color of. That was
created by the Player Controller, do you remember that? If we look back at the
Player Controller blueprint, which is under the Tank, it
created this UI Widget in its Event Graph in the Begin
Play. The Player Controller controls a tank, we know that
right. The Player Controller controls a given tank. In fact, we've even on the Player Controller got
ourselves a GetControlledTank() method, it's just not currently
available to Blueprint. So while we're here, let's sort that out. This
is a UFUNCTION, and we want to make this available
to Blueprint. So it's going to be (Blueprint
Callable, and it's going to have a Category
of setup
I would say. Always a good choice if we're not sure now! If it's going to be
BlueprintCallable, then a blueprint is a subclass of this C++
class, so it can't be in the private section anymore, it's going to need to be in a protected
section so that subclasses can access this.
OK, so that's a simple code change I've made there to the TankPlayerController.h.
Just made it BlueprintCallable and made it protected. There are the things
I've changed. So I'll Compile the code, while continuing the discussion on the slide.
So the Player Controller controls a tank, and now once that
is finished, in Blueprint we will be able to get the ControlledTank. That will be a method
we'll actually be able to access from Blueprint. I just heard the compile succeed, there you go!
The Tank has an Aiming component on it, we know that by now.
Now, the Player UI Widget is going to want to talk
to that AimingComponent. It's going to want to know what state the AimingComponent is. We're going to do some work on the
AimingComponent, actually after this video, and one of the three things we're going to do is
give it an Enum state, an enumerator, which we used in the first section of this course,
in the Bull Cow section. And that is going to be one of three states. It's either going to be
Locked, i.e. lined up and green. Aiming i.e. the barrel's moving
or reloading, in which case it's red then you can't fire.
So that state is going to be in the AimingComponent, but the Player UI Widget
wants to know that state, and the AimingComponent is a little bit distant from the UI Widget.
So what we're going to do is setup a blueprint variable in the UI Widget. Let's see how that would work!
We're going to come over... Let's do it now! We'll come over here to the
UI Widget, go to the graph of the Player UI blueprint, add
yourself a variable, call it, I don't know, let's say BP
Aiming Comp Reference
quite explicit, and then, the type of this variable on
the blueprint is going to be a very specific type. It is actually going to be a Tank Aiming Component
type. OK and that's a BP Aiming Comp. Reference
type there. So we'll use that later. So that's what I mean by a
blueprint variable. Let's just Compile that, make sure everything's happy. And that's what this
blue box here is. Now the blueprint variable, when we set it up, it's
going to point to the AimingComponent of the tank in
question, i.e. the Player's Controlled Tank. And then,
once that blueprint variable points to this AimingComponent, the Player UI Widget will have
the bridge by which it can check the state of the AimingComponent. So looking at this diagram,
especially if I go back a stage, it's pretty obvious where we need to do this hookup
in the Player Controller right, because it is the connection between the UI Widget and the
Tank. So we're going to be focusing inside the Player Controller when we do this. So let's dive into
the PlayerController and think about how we're going to do it.
First, let's get the reference. We're talking about references, so
inside the TankPlayerController we already have this reference here to create Player
UI Blueprint Widget. Now provided that, in your Player UI Blueprint, you
have already made this variable and it is of type TankAimingComponent
and this blueprint is saved and compiled, then in the TankPlayerController,
when you come off the Create Player UI Blueprint reference
you should be able to search for aiming, and you'll see this Set Blueprint
Aiming Component Reference. OK so in
terms of our diagram, what we're doing here is we are telling it what
this blueprint, this link here, this curved arrow. Alright, so
where are we going to get the Blueprint Aiming Component Reference from? Well hopefully now
we have this Get Controlled Tank method. There you go!
Get Controlled Tank is available here. Now why is it available here? Because we're in
a Tank Player Controller blueprint, who's parent class is the TankPlayerController,
and provided that you added the code I've got highlighted in the TankPlayeController header file,
then this BlueprintCallable method will now be available. As long as it's protected
and BlueprintCallable, you can call GetControlledTank.
So there it is, there is GetControlledTank working on itself, working on this Tank Player Controller, saying
what tank am I controlling? Now from
the tank, we need to get the AimingComponent. So are we able to do
that at the moment? Well no we're not able to get the AimingComponent off this tank. Why not?
Well let's go and have a look at the tank and see how exposed the
aiming component is. So the Tank.h. You see for the
MovementComponent we've made it (BlueprintReadOnly) but for the AimingComponent we haven't done
that yet. OK so in your Tank.h,
in your protected section, if you make your AimingComponent BlueprintReadOnly and recompile...
That's the code we're adding, what I've got
highlighted there in blue. Then, of course, from
anywhere in a subclass we should be able to get hold of
the... Well in the class itself or a subclass we should be able to get hold of the
TankAimingComponent. Now, the context we're in, when we drag off here, is actually the tank,
so it's the tank itself. So we should have no trouble now
getting TankAimingComponent. So we've gone from the tank to it's AimingComponent,
and then, we pass that reference into the blueprint, Aiming Component
Reference. Does that make sense? Hopefully it does. Let's recap where we are in the
diagram. We've got to the Tank, we've got the Aiming Component,
so that is what's coming out here, and we're setting this Blueprint
Variable here, up here. I'm just going to move things around a little bit, so that the execution
flow works a bit better, like so.
And I'm taking the execution flow out of the viewport. So we create this blueprint widget, we
add it to the viewport, and then, we set the Blueprint Variable over on it. Pretty cool!
Let's Compile and Save that! Now, over in the Player
UI Blueprint, how do we do this? Well click on the
Designer tab. Let's go and look at this little dot. I'm going to make it a bit bigger, my
little crosshair. I'm going to make it, say 7, or even more. I'm going to make it 10 by 10
for now, so you can really see it. It's larger now, 10 by 10.
So there it is! Now, here's the color. You could just change the color here, but of course we
want to do it programmatically. So it's all very well at being pink. What we do not
want to do is change this color in the Event Graph, in some strange
way, by like grabbing this AimPoint here and then
getting it and trying to set a color. Don't do that, because the only way it will
work, from an execution flow point of view, is every tick and that's pretty
horrible. We want this to happen only when it needs to happen, so forget doing that. The other
problem with doing it this way is that you wouldn't be able to see here
that that color is being changed in the Event Graph, and you'd have to notice that. If we use this
bind functionality, so we're now inside the Player UI Blueprint in the Designer, under the
Appearance section, next to Color Opacity you can see Create Binding.
Now what that's going to do is it's going to create this binding. It's called Get
Aim Point Color and Opacity. Now I don't like it being called underscore 0, so I'm going to take that off
over here in the Functions list. But now this Player UI
has a function Event Graph, and what this is going to do is allow us to set
programmatically the color. Let's try setting it to blue! So I've click this little
blue here, and I'm just saying, OK if we were to look here
now at the color and opacity, forget the fact that it's pink. It doesn't
actually matter what color that is now. It's bound to this method here. If I click on
the magnifying glass it takes me there. If I compile and play, you can
see that the color has changed to blue, and that indicates to
everybody concerned that the color is actually not set here in the Designer
anymore but it is set according to this bound function.
So now we have to talk about how we're actually going to set that
color, and that is going to be the subject of the next video. So
well done, save everything up, commit your work, and I'll see you in the next one!